20041202

East West Herb Course

I started this correspondence course developed by Michael tierra, O.M.D., and his wife Lesley Tierra, L. Ac.  I've been looking at this for about 15 years, and it seemed time to do something about it.  Here I will write more intuitive responses to what I'm reading--I'll do any important note taking elsewhere.

Doctrine of Signatures

I believe this is from Chinese herbalism.  Basically the Doctrine of Signatures tells us that when we see a plant that resembles or has characteristics of a disease or a body part, it can potentially be used as medicine for that disease or body part.

My rational mind scoffed at this, but something deeper said "Hold on".  What I started thinking about was our place in evolution, and an evolving humanity, using it's instinctual senses to cure disease and feed itself.  I saw the collective consciousness, Nature, speaking to this early man through non-verbals.  All things, interconnected, one part communicating with another through non-verbals.

In the past, I would have read what I just wrote as being intellectual gobldey-gook.  I can't explain how it was that my spirit responded to this.  Instead of coming from a book, where I was attempting to embrace what someone else was telling me, my heart told me this was a truth.

20060414

This is a case study that was on the Planet Herbs Website, and it sounds exactly like myself!

"Our mid-40s do it all Mom is so tired! She has a job, is raising her children, has hobbies and is in charge of preparing for a Bar Mitzvah. Now, she suffers from mental strain and lack of focus. Little decisions overwhelm her. Can we help? Please do the ANALYSIS first, then the TREATMENT STRATEGY and finally the HERBAL & LIFESTYLE RECOMMENDATIONS. Good luck and see you on Wednesday, March 29, 2006, at 6 pm PST.

PRIMARY ISSUE: Exhausted. Three years ago, suffered from crushing fatigue - it is almost as bad. Especially 12-4 pm.
SECONDARY ISSUE: Decision-making is difficult. Can’t focus. Forgetful. Making a decision exhausts her. Obsesses about decisions. (Takes Concerta to help her to focus)

Cold. Entire body and especially fingers and toes.
Blood Pressure: Low to normal.
Low thyroid.
Head injury: As a child, age 5, she fell and hit her head.
Allergies: Penicillin, hay fever.
Beverages: Diet Coke. Helps her to keep going.
Water: 0-32 ounces.
Food: Craves sugar. Gets hungry, knows she needs to eat but can’t figure out what to eat.
Migraines: 2-3x per year, in center of forehead.
Knees: Weakness and pain.
Dizziness: When she stands quickly.
Farting
Nausea With bad headache, 2-3x per year.
Mouth sores: before menses, with white sore on tip of tongue.
Menses: Heavy.
Eyes: Twitching.
PMS: Tired, irritable, headaches.
Throat: Soreness, 3-4x per week, with late-morning fatigue.
EMOTIONAL: “Unreasonably worried”, depressed.
TONGUE: (Phone consult): No cracks, scalloped edges.
PULSES: (Phone consult): No information.

ANALYSIS:
TREATMENT STRATEGY:
HERBAL & LIFESTYLE RECOMMENDATIONS:"

So my analysis, derived from from the archived chat. . .



